[WIP] docs: router deployment (#7275)
apollographql/router: docs/source/routing/self-hosted/containerization/aws.mdx

---
title: Deploying GraphOS Router on Amazon Web Services
subtitle: Deploy router with Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) 
description: Build and deploy Apollo Router on Amazon Web Services (AWS) with Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS)
---

Learn how to deploy the router for development on AWS with Elastic Container Service (ECS).

You will:
- Build a router image with a Dockerfile.
- Set up an Elastic Cloud Registry and push your router image to it.
- Create an ECS task definition for your router and deploy it.

<Note>

Not deploying to AWS? Try our router deployment guides for [GCP](/graphos/routing/self-hosted/containerization/gcp) or [Azure](/graphos/routing/self-hosted/containerization/azure).

</Note>

## Prerequisites

Before you start:

1. [Set up a GraphQL API in GraphOS](/graphos/get-started/guides/graphql#step-1-set-up-your-graphql-api).
    - Save your `APOLLO_KEY` and `APOLLO_GRAPH_REF`. You'll need them when deploying the router.
1. Install [Docker](https://www.docker.com/get-started/) locally.

> 1. Set up you [AWS environment](https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/guides/setup-environment/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Set up your [AWS environment](https://aws.amazon.com/getting-started/guides/setup-environment/)
```

    - Install the AWS CLI.

>     - Use an existing Create an Amazon 

Reviewer: I think this is what you were going for:

```suggestion
    - Use an existing account or create one.
```

Separately--do we want to provide links for these or just allow users to find the right place to sign up/install the CLI?

> 1. Choose a version of the router to deploy (for example, `v1.61.0`). You'll need it when specifying the router image to deploy.

Reviewer: Can we provide guidance on how to choose which version to deploy? Something as simple as, "Unless you have reason not to, use the latest stable release." and link out to it?

If we want to be more comprehensive we can put best practices in an `<ExpansionPanel>` called something like "Not sure which version to choose?"

Here's some general guidance Claude spit out, e.g.

```
- Use Latest Stable Release: For most cases, it's recommended to use the latest stable release . The latest versions typically include the most recent features, security patches, and performance improvements.
- Check Release Notes: Before selecting a version, review the release notes for breaking changes or new features that might affect your deployment. 
- Consider LTS Versions: LTS versions are good choices for production environments where stability is crucial and you don't need the newest features.
- Testing Requirements: For development or testing environments, you might want to use the same version you plan to use in production, or try newer versions to test upcoming features.
- Compatibility: Ensure the router version is compatible with:
Your Apollo Federation version
Your existing Apollo Studio setup
Any custom plugins or extensions you're using
```

## Build router image

To deploy your own router, start by customizing and building a router image, using a Dockerfile and a router configuration file:

1. In a local directory, create a `router.yaml` file and copy-paste the following configuration into the file: 
    
    ```yaml title="router.yaml"
    supergraph:
        listen: 0.0.0.0:4000
    health_check:
        listen: 0.0.0.0:8088
    ```

    The router's default HTTP and health check endpoint addresses are localhost, so they wouldn't be reachable when deployed. This configuration enables the router to listen to all addresses.

> 1. Create a `Dockerfile` file and copy-paste the following into the file:

Reviewer: Until this point I've seen "Dockerfile" w/o backticks. Is there a reason to put it in `<code>` here?

    
    ```bash showLineNumbers=false
    docker buildx build --platform linux/amd64  -t router-aws:v1.61.0 --load .
    ```

    - Because Cloud Run only supports AMD64-based images, the `docker buildx build --platform linux/amd64` command ensures the image is built for AMD64 and is compatible.  
    - The `--load` option loads the built image to `docker images`.

1. Run `docker images` and validate that your router image is in the returned list of images.

## Push router image to registry

Now that you have a built router image, create a repository in Elastic Cloud Registry (ECR) and push your image to it:

1. In a local terminal, run the AWS CLI command to create a new ECR repository:
    - For `--repository-name`, set a name for your repository (for example, `router-repo`) 
    - For `--region`, set your AWS region (for example, `us-west-1`)

    ```bash showLineNumbers=false
    aws ecr create-repository \
        --repository-name router-repo \
        --region us-west-1
    ```

1. In AWS CLI, authenticate your Docker CLI to ECR.

>     - For `--region`, use your AWS regions (for example, `us-west-1`)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - For `--region`, use your AWS region (for example, `us-west-1`)
```

    - Use your ECR repository URI, which you can copy from your ECR Repositories Console (for example, `0123456789000.dkr.ecr.us-west-1.amazonaws.com`)

    ```bash showLineNumbers=false

>     aws ecr get-login-password --region us-west-1 | docker login --username AWS --password-stdin 0123456789000.dkr.ecr.us-west-1.amazonaws.com

Reviewer: Consider making this a multi-line command for readability.

    ```

    > To troubleshoot ECR authentication, go to [AWS documentation](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/AmazonECR/latest/userguide/getting-started-cli.html#cli-authenticate-registry).  

1. Run `docker tag` to tag the image before pushing it to ECR.

    ```bash showLineNumbers=false
    docker tag router-aws:v1.61.0 0123456789000.dkr.ecr.us-west-1.amazonaws.com/router-repo:v1.61.0
    ```

1. Run `docker push` to push the router image to your ECR repository URI, using a tag (e.g., `:v1.61.0`):

    ```bash showLineNumbers=false
    docker push 0123456789000.dkr.ecr.us-west-1.amazonaws.com/router-repo:v1.61.0
    ```

1. Run `aws ecr list-images` and validate that your image is in the list of images in your ECR repository:

    ```bash showLineNumbers=false
    aws ecr list-images --repository-name router-repo
    ```

## Create and deploy ECS task

> With your image pushed to your ECR repository, in ECS you can define a task for the router and deploy it as a service.

Reviewer: Might just be me, but this flows a little awkwardly. Consider:

```suggestion
With your image in ECR, you can now create an ECS task definition and deploy the router as a service.
```

### Create cluster

You need an ECS cluster to deploy the router.

> If you don't have a cluster, you can create one with default settings: 

Reviewer: The "can" adds a note of doubt that I don't think is necessary here:

```suggestion
If you don't have a cluster, create one with default settings: 
```

1. In the AWS Console, go to the Amazon ECS Console, then click **Create cluster**.
1. Enter a name for your cluster.
1. Click **Create**.

### Create task definition

Create an ECS task definition for your router:

1. In the AWS ECS Console, go to **Task definitions** from the left navigation panel, then click **Create new task definition** and select **Create new task definition**.

> 1. Fill in the details for **Container - 1**:

Reviewer: Consider using a table to more clearly show the necessary input values. (E.g. the `rover init` values in https://www.apollographql.com/docs/guides/rest/setup#create-a-graph)

    - **Image URI**: Select the URI of your router image
    - **Port mappings**:  
        - **Container port**: Enter `4000` (must match ) and 
        - **Port name**: Enter a port name
    - **Environment variables**: Enter the environment variables `APOLLO_KEY` and `APOLLO_GRAPH_REF` and set them to your graph API key and graph ref, respectively
1. In `Docker configuration - optional`, enter the command options to configure the router and run it in development mode:

    ```text showLineNumbers=false
    --dev, --config, /dist/config/router.yaml
    ```
1. Click **Create**. 

### Deploy router

Deploy the router in your ECS cluster:

1. In AWS ECS Console under **Task definitions**, select your defined task, then click **Deploy** and select **Create service**.
1. Fill in  the fields for the service:
    - **Existing cluster**: Select your cluster
    - **Service name**: Enter a name for your service
1. Click **Create** to create the service. ECS will start deploying the service for the router.
1. After AWS finishes deploying, click on the service to go to its page in Console. Check the service logs for messages from the running router. For example:

>     ```text title="Example router log message"

Reviewer: Consider removing line numbers from one line code snippets and disabling the copy if it's not something we think folks will have a need to copy.

```suggestion
    ```text title="Example router log message" showLineNumbers=false disableCopy=true
```

    {"timestamp":"2025-04-04T17:32:14.928608731Z","level":"INFO","message":"Apollo Router v1.61.0 // (c) Apollo Graph, Inc. // Licensed as ELv2 (https://go.apollo.dev/elv2)","target":"apollo_router::executable","resource":{}}
    ```

> 1. Go to the service URL and validate the the router's development Sandbox is running successfully.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Go to the service URL and validate the router's development Sandbox is running successfully.
```

Is it worth showing a screenshot or otherwise indicating what a successfully running Sandbox looks like?
